week 10 Docker

Step 1:-Connecting AWS Instance Ubuntu using Mobaxterm
1. Login AWS(Amazon Web Services) Account
2. Lunch Instance name Docker
3. Connect to Ubuntu or mobaxterm
(note:-Follow this url for docker file and application—https://github.com/devisar/devopslab)
Step 2:-Create Docker Hub Account and create repository in Docker Hub
Step 3:-Install Docker and Check Status and Start Docker in mobaxterm
1. sudo apt update -y
2. sudo apt install docker.io –y
3. sudo systemctl status docker(come outside use command ctl+z)
Above status command is docker running means no problem if not run use command below to run
4. sudo systemctl start docker Step 4:- Grant Access Why we give grant access means A easy way to verify your Docker installation is by running the below command
docker run hello-world
If the output says:
This can mean two things,
1. Docker deamon is not running.(start docker using “sudo systemctl start docker” ) 
2. Your user does not have access to run docker commands. 
Grant Access to your user to run docker commands 
1. sudo usermod -aG docker ubuntu In the above command ubuntu is the name of the user, you can change the username appropriately.
NOTE: : You need to logout and login back for the changes to be reflected. 
2. Logout purpose use commands exit or logout 
Again run command “docker run hello-world”
Step 5:-Creating application and Docker file 
1. Mkdir docker1 
2. cd docker1 
3. vim app.py print(“hello world”) 
4. cat app.py
5. vim Dockerfile (below pic commands write lab record) typing command vim before click “i” for insert data after completion Docker file commands save before click esc use :wq!
Step 6:- Build and Check Docker image Syntax:- docker build –t dockerhub_username/repositoryname:tag . 
1. docker build –t anu1308/dockerimage:latest .
2. docker images
Step 7:- Run your First Docker Container
1. docker run -it anu1308/dockerimage:latest
Output
Hello World
Step 8:-Docker Login
1. docker login
Step 9:- Push the Image to DockerHub and share it with the world
1. docker push anu1308/dockerimage:latest